The next topic World discuss is how we assign IP addresses
So how do we first come up with an IP address for a particular interface
So
for particular computer
so there are a few mechanisms for this
Typically
it's done through a bootstrap anger startup process
There are two mechanisms will discuss that accomplish
This one is called DHCP
which anode wood used to learn a ton configuration parameters
There is another process to learn the link layer
address to serve other nodes
which is done with ARP
So
first talk primarily about DHCP
So for example
what IP address
if we've added a new host to a network
what IP address should that hose to use what DNS server should it use
how can it disambiguation
which destinations are local versus on some external network
How could we address to those destinations if they are local
And then how do we send packets out to remote destination
Typically through some Gateway router
So those are the problems were going to try to address
So we'd prefer not to just in code all of this information manually
that would be one solution
but it'll be pretty brittle and it wouldn't scale
Well
so DHCP stands for the dynamic host configuration protocol
and with this each and host
would learn how to send Pockets
So basically it would learn IP addresses
DNS servers
Gateway node
to send information out through two other networks and what it what the address is our local
In the address resolution protocol ARP
This is for a local destinations
This would discover the mapping between IP addresses that are used at the network layer and Mac address for this
which are used at the link layer
So a lower-level addressing
So for both Protocols are a few key ideas out of the first is broadcasting
So if you don't know something
shout to get the answer
the broadcast query would be sent to All hosts in the local area networks
and the land that you're connected to and this is what you do
If you don't know how to identify the correct other hosts cashing will also be incorporated in these protocols
to remember a past information for a while so store what you learn to reduce overhead and having to send too many requests for information and also to store your own address and other hosts addresses
So this casting process is also a form of soft States
We'd eventually
forget the past
So you'd associate sometime to live with that information
And then either refresher discard information if it times out and this is important for robustness
in case of unpredictable changes
So
what's the MAC address versus an IP address
So the MAC address is something that's hard-coded
Whereas the IP addresses is something that would be configured or learned dynamically
So
you can sort of
think of a MAC address like a social security number and an IP address
like a postal mailing address number
So
you can if you move probably you keep the same social security number
but you might wind up with a new postal address Mac addresses or a flat namespace of 48 bits
So that typically be written in Acts and looks something like this
Are they be portable and they could stay the same as a host would move around and this is what to use that the link later to get packets between interfaces on the network
And contrast
as we've already seen IP addresses
are hierarchical namespace using 32 bits
So that dotted quad notation is
wouldn't necessarily be portable
It would depend on where the host is attached
But this is what to use for doing the network layer
the internet level routing to figure out destination
IP subnet
So the bootstrap problem is that when a host gets connected to a network or turns on
it doesn't have an IP address yet
So it doesn't know what source address to use to send information out using the IP protocol
It also doesn't know who to ask for an IP address
So what it'll do it first to be able to figure out what destination
Addresses would make sense
And what's worse address
It's been a sign
Is it would send out a broadcast to discover a server that can help
So I broadcast out of server Discovery message to this special Mac address
then the server or possibly servers running
Say
DHCP would respond back offering an address
So the response from the DHCP server
I would consist of an offer this
it have configuration parameters like the proposed IP address mask information
a Gateway router IP address DNS server IPs at cetera
It also include a lease time
which should be the duration for which that IP address would remain valid
Several servers could respond
There might be multiple DHCP server is on the same broadcast network
They could each respond
but you should probably just pick one of them
Otherwise
your IP address wouldn't be unique
The client would send the request act when the parameters back to accept an offer and the DHCP server would respond with an acknowledgement and the other DHCP server
So if there are multiple offers
they would see that they weren't chosen
The roughly
This is what I run of the protocol would look like a DHCP
Discover get sent to sent out through the broadcast mechanism
So that all computers are all things attached to the network
It would offer an IP address Gateway information at cetera to the client
If the client could broadcast back sending a request that
okay
I'll take that and then the DHCP server would acknowledge back
So why do we incorporate a least
I'm so
so that information can be forgotten
So the client could request release of the IP address to get a new IP address where this could occur if the client shuts down
However
the client might not release the address
So I suppose the computer crashes
If you don't release the address and have a timeout then that address would have been allocated forever and we want to avoid that scenario
So there can be some performance trade-off
With these least
I'm
so if it's a short leash time
the address that's been allocated what time out quickly
But if it's long
you would avoid the silver had a frequent renewal
but it would increase potentially the chance of running out of IP addresses to another host has information like what the IP addresses that it's been assigned with the network mask is or what the subnet information is
What a Gateway is and what DNS servers are
So now it could send out packets to other IP address
but how come the local or can we use the local network to accomplish this
So how would I know to figure out if it's sending something locally versus remotely
So there's two cases for this
right
If the destinations on the local network
you can go ahead and address it directly
If it's not
then you need to figure out where to send it through
which typically would be the Gateway router
So if it's on the local network
you can determine that by comparing the mask
That's been assigned
So if you take the destination address and can jump it with the mask and then if you get back the same value as when the host's own addresses mask
then you know
it's local
So for example
if this host wanted to send something to this host and it took the mask of this and make it back something like 1.2.3, and it would know that
Okay
the
7 is awesome
The same local network
So if it's a remote
though
we need to look up the first stop on the local routing table
So that would be whatever
Gateway had been assigned
So then we would do the same thing for the local case for this Gateway rather than the ultimate ultimate to add destination IP address for the local case
We need to figure out the destinations Mac address
And the reason that we would need to do that is because sending packets over a link
the network interface cards on the understand Mac addresses
So that destination IP address needs to get translated into a MAC address
And what would occur is the IP packet would get encapsulated inside of a link level frame
right
So basically
we would prefix in front of it the link level information as we've seen some other earlier examples of